= Restcomm RCML – Geolocation


The verb **<Geolocation>** sends a Geolocation request either to a
mobile cellular network or to an IP Geolocation application. The request
could be triggered by example by an external client or during a voice
call, USSD request or after reception of an SMS.


== Geolocation attributes


The **<Geolocation>** verb supports the following attributes:


[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",]
|==============================================
|PARAMETER |ALLOWED VALUES |DEFAULT VALUE
|deviceIdentifier |Phone number |See below
|action |Relative or absolute URL |None
|method |GET, POST |POST
|statusCallback |Relative or absolute URL |None
|==============================================



●      **deviceIdentifier**. The _‘deviceIdentifier’_ attribute takes a
valid E.164 phone number, an IP or MAC address as a value. RestComm will
send a location request to this target.

●      **action**. The _‘action’_ attribute takes a URL as an argument.
After processing the <Geolocation> verb, RestComm will make a GET or
POST request to this URL with the form parameters _‘GeolocationStatus’_
and __‘GeolocationSid’__. Using an _‘action’_ URL, your application can
receive synchronous notification that the Geolocation service was
successfully queued. If you provide an _‘action’_ URL, RestComm will use
the RCML received in your response to the _‘action’_ URL request to
continue the current service. Any RCML verbs occurring after a
<Geolocation> which specifies an _‘action’_ attribute are unreachable.
If no ‘action’ is provided, <Geolocation> will finish and RestComm will
move on to the next RCML verb in the document. If there is no next verb,
RestComm will end the service.

●      **method**. The ‘method’ attribute takes the values ‘GET’ or
‘POST’. This tells RestComm whether to request the ‘action’ URL via HTTP
GET or POST. This attribute is modelled after the HTML form ‘method’
attribute.

●      **statusCallback**. The ‘statusCallback’ attribute takes an URL
as an argument. When the location request is sent, or if sending fails,
RestComm will make an asynchronous POST request to this URL with the
parameters _‘GeolocationStatus’_ and __‘GeolocationSid’__. Note,
_‘statusCallback’_ always uses HTTP POST to request the given URL.



== Request parameters



[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|=======================================================================
|PARAMETER |DESCRIPTION

|GeolocationSid |Sid for the Geolocation service request.

|GeolocationStatus |Status of the Geolocation service request. Either
‘sent’ or ‘failed’.
|=======================================================================



== Nesting


The *<Geolocation>* verb can have the following nouns nested:**
<Immediate>** and **<Notification>**.



●        **<Immediate> noun:** refers to requests for retrieval of
current or last known location information (an associated timestamp will
be included in the response). Geolocation information might include very
accurate location data in terms of geographic coordinates, or just
location identifiers like the radio base station transceiver identity of
a cellular network that is currently giving service to the target
device. Accuracy will depend on the available location procedures,
either within a Mobile Network Operator for mobile handsets location
within a cellular Radio Access Network, or a WLAN/WiFi covered area for
IP location.



●        **<Notification> noun:** refers to requests for retrieval of
event related location information. Examples include geofencing, device
availability/presence alerts, sensors/beacons alarms, etc. Relative
location data (distance to a specific spot), time intervals of
occurrence and other kinds of event associated operational information
can be included from this mode request.


The **<Immediate>** noun does not bring up additional attributes to the
**<Geolocation>** verb. Contrariwise, the **<Notification>** noun adds
additional attributes that are discussed further in this document.



== <Notification> noun attributes



The **<Notification>** noun adds additional attributes that are
discussed next. The following additional attributes support:



[width="100%",cols="34%,33%,33%",]
|=======================================================================
|PARAMETER |ALLOWED VALUES |DEFAULT VALUE

|eventGeofencingLatitude |A valid latitude universal coordinate |null

|eventGeofencingLongitude |A valid longitude universal coordinate |null

|geofenceRange |An integer amount to represent a distance in metres.
|null

|geofenceEvent |A string representing the type of geofencing event to be
notified. |null
|=======================================================================



●      **eventGeofencingLatitude.** The _‘eventGeofencingLatitude’_
attribute refers to the geographic coordinates’ latitude of a specific
location. Used to notify when a device is within a certain distance (in
metres) from that specific location.

●      **eventGeofencingLongitude.** The ‘eventGeofencingLongitude’
attribute refers to the geographic coordinates’ longitude of a specific
location. Used to notify when a device is within a certain distance (in
metres) from that specific location.

●      **geofenceRange.** The _‘geofenceRange’_ attribute refers to the
distance in metres from a specific geographic location denoted by
_‘eventGeofencingLatitude’_ and ‘eventGeofencingLongitude’.

●      **geofenceEvent.** The ‘__geofenceEvent’__ attribute refers to
the eventuality of a target device entering or leaving a specific
location area (implicitly specified by ‘EventGeofenceLatitude’,
‘EventGeofenceLongitude’ and ‘GeofenceRange’). Available values are:

o       __in__: reports when the target device has been detected within
the specified location area.

o       __out__: reports when the target device has been detected
leaving the specified location area.

o       __in-out__:  reports when the target device has been detected
either entering or leaving the specified location area.



== RCML examples



RCML examples on how to use the <Geolocation> verb are depicted next.


Immediate Geolocation service example demanding a synchronous HTTP POST
action:

....
<Response>
	<Geolocation>
		<Immediate deviceIdentifier="59899549878" action="http://my.controller.net" method="POST"/>
    </Geolocation>
</Response>
....


Immediate Geolocation service example demanding an asynchronous HTTP
POST:

....
<Response>
    <Geolocation>
        <Immediate deviceIdentifier="59899549878" statusCallback="http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf"/>
    </Geolocation>
</Response>
....


Notification Geolocation service example demanding a synchronous HTTP
GET action:

....
<Response>
    <Geolocation>
        <Notification deviceIdentifier="59899549878" eventGeofencingLatitude="-33.426280" eventGeofencingLatitude="-70.566560W" geofenceRange="500" geofenceEvent="in-out" action="http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf" method="GET"/>
    </Geolocation>
</Response>
....


Notification Geolocation service example demanding an asynchronous HTTP
POST:

....
<Response>
    <Geolocation>
        <Notification deviceIdentifier="59899549878" eventGeofencingLatitude="-33.426280" eventGeofencingLatitude="-70.566560W" geofenceRange="500" geofenceEvent="in-out" statusCallback="http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf"/>
    </Geolocation>
</Response>
....


When the Geolocation request is sent, or if sending fails, RestComm will make an asynchronous POST method to the ‘StatusCallback’ URL with the parameters _‘GeolocationStatus’_ and _‘GeolocationSid’_, as explained in the Restcomm RCML Geolocation section.

See below examples of this method applicable to previous examples for
either ‘sent’ or ‘failed’ requests.


....
HTTP POST http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf  -d
"GeolocationSid=GLd66d2fe3954b4c888ad3dafc81b8f661" -d
"GeolocationStatus=sent"
....


....
HTTP POST http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf  -d
"GeolocationSid=GLd66d2fe3954b4c888ad3dafc81b8f661" -d
"GeolocationStatus=failed"
....
