= Restcomm API Geolocation

== Rationale

The goal of this document is describing and offer an API that Web
Developers can understand without the need of any knowledge about the
underlying Telecom infrastructure and jargon and thus make it as easy as
it gets to include Geolocation as a value-added feature in their
applications.

The API aims to cater either IP Geolocation (from Restcomm SDKs) or
cellular telephony Geolocation (from Mobile Network Operators core and
radio access networks, either by SS7 MAP or LTE Diameter operations) in
terms of API.


The use cases this API aims covering are:

1. Notify Restcomm the current location of client X or certain
MSISDN (e.g. iWatch cardio activity alarm 2015 TADHack Chicago winner-,
E911, friend/family finder, etc.).

2. Notify Restcomm if client X or certain MSISDN enters or exits a
geofence. Use cases like mobile advertising use cases apply to this type of Geolocation service.

3. Notify Restcomm if client X is within N meters from client Y. Many use cases apply to this type of Geolocation service, namely:

* Parental control: Notify a parent when their child/children are further than X metres away.

* Hanging out: Notify friends when they are within X Kms.

* Business matching: at a conference, notify attendees of other attendees within range who also have related interest based on LinkedIn profile.

* Court restraining order: when someone is legally not allowed to be writhing certain range of another individual.

Other use cases will be covered in future iterations of the API based on
community and customer feedback.


== Geolocation


A *Geolocation* resource represents an outbound Geolocation
service.

=== Geolocation Resource URI

Geolocation Resource **URI** distinct in three modes described further
below:


*/ApiVersion/Accounts/\{AccountSid}/Geolocation/\{GeolocationSid}*


This URI refers to requests that would only allow HTTP GET method to
retrieve previously gathered Geolocation information, regardless of
whether it was an Immediate or Notification Geolocation request. (See
further below for description of those terms).


=== Geolocation Resource properties



[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|=======================================================================
|PROPERTY |DESCRIPTION

|Sid |A string that uniquely identifies this Geolocation service.

|DateCreated |The date that this Geolocation service was created.

|DateUpdated |The date that this Geolocation service was last updated.

|DateExecuted |The date that this Geolocation service was sent.

|AccountSid |A string that uniquely identifies the account that created
this Geolocation service.

|Source |A string that uniquely identifies the Geolocation service
client, phone number or device that initiated the Geolocation service.

|DeviceIdentifier |A string that uniquely identifies the device target
(e.g. phone number, IoT device, ...) of this Geolocation service.

|GeolocationType: a|
The type of location measurement requested, namely:

**_Immediate_**: after a successful geolocation attempt has been
delivered with its associated timestamp, the location information and
timestamp are referred to as the current location at that point in
time.

**_Notification_**: location request where the response/s is/are
required after a specific event has occurred. Event may or may not occur
immediately. In addition, event may occur many times. Examples of these
events: when a device is entering or leaving or being in a pre-defined
geographical area (geofencing); periodic location; when a device becomes
available; when a sensor/beacon detects a threshold surpassed, etc.

|ResponseStatus a|
A string that uniquely identifies the current state of this Geolocation
service. Possible values are:

**_queued_**: whenever the location request is buffered due to abnormal
causes (e.g. congestion at the GMLC);

**_sent_**: when the location request has already been sent but no
response has arrived yet;

**_processing_**: when the location response has been received but being
under computational process for delivery to the requesting location
client.

**_successful_**: when the location response has been received and
processed with complete fulfilment of quality of geolocation
information.

**_partially-successful_**: when the location response has been received
and processed, but not fulfilled the whole set of geolocation
information or desired accuracy, e.g.: geographic coordinates were not
possible to retrieve, but at least other location information such as
Cell/Service and Location/Service Area identifiers were obtained; location information
was retrieved, but the age of location estimate denotes it may be
outdated; location information was retrieved, but informed that
precision is not reliable due to high error margin.

**_last-known_**: when location information could not be retrieved from
the network but there is a previous persisted location information for
the targeted DeviceIdentifier of this Geolocation service.

**_failed_**: when location information could not be retrieved from the
network and there is no previous location information persisted for the
targeted DeviceIdentifier of this Geolocation service, or when an
attempt to update this Geolocation service was malformed or not API
compliant. In the latter situation, the record persists, but previous
geolocation information is erased (expecting a correct geolocation
update).

**_unauthorized_**: when the location request is or has become
disallowed from the network, the location client requesting this service
is not authorized for such operation or the target device is marked for
not authorizing this kind of location requests. A record is persisted
for security and analytics purposes.

**_rejected_**: when the location request does not meet the API's
requirements for mandatory parameters (or some of them are missing), or
prohibited parameters are included for a certain type of Geolocation. No
records are persisted in this eventuality.

|GeolocationData a|
An array that uniquely identifies the location information that might be
obtained by this Geolocation service. The fields of this array are
described next:

**_CellId_**: an identifier assigned to a specific radio coverage area
known as cell or service area;

**_LocationAreaCode_**: an identifier assigned to a group of cells or service area;

**_MobileCountryCode_**: code number of the country of the mobile
network as specified by E.212.

**_MobileNetworkCode_**: code number of the mobile network in a specific
country as specified by E.212.

**_NetworkEntityAddress_**: code number of the mobile network entity
addressed for this Geolocation service.

**_LocationAge_**: indication of how long ago the network location
identifiers were recorded (informed in minutes);

**_DeviceLatitude_**: an estimate of the location of the phone number,
device/beacon or closest WiFi Access Point in the geographic
coordinate that specifies the north-south position of a point on the
Earth's surface.

WGS84 is used, whose formats for Latitude are described next:

Latitude valid formats include:

    N43°38'19.39"

   43°38'19.39"N

   43 38 19.39

   43.63871944444445

If expressed in decimal form, northern latitudes are positive, southern
latitudes are negative. The following longitude variants are also allowed:

   N43 38 19.39

   43 38 19.39N

**_DeviceLongitude_**: an estimate of the location of the phone number,
device/beacon or closest WiFi Access Point in the geographic
coordinate that specifies the north-south position of a point on the
Earth's surface.

WGS84 is used, whose formats for Longitude are described next:

Longitude valid formats include:

   W116°14'28.86"

   116°14'28.86"W

   -116 14 28.86

   -116.2413513485235

If expressed in decimal form, eastern longitudes are positive, western
longitudes are negative. The following longitude variants are also allowed:

   W116 14 28.86

   116 14 28.86W

**_Accuracy_**: quality of location information or estimated precision
for this Geolocation service in meters. This information will be present
depending on available location procedures at the radio access network.

**_PhysicalAddress_**: MAC address of the device/beacon or closest
closest WiFi Access Point.

**_InternetAddress_**: IP address of the phone number, device/beacon or
closest closest WiFi Access Point.

*__FormattedAddress__:* refers to the civic location of the phone
number, device/beacon or closest WiFi Access Point, expressed as civic
data (e.g. floor, street number, city.) It shall be represented in a
well-defined universal format, compliant with Google Geolocation API
"formatted_address" json/xml field.

**_LocationTimestamp_**: indication of when the geolocation information
was gathered (informed as a time stamp);

*_EventGeofenceLatitude:_* refers to the geographic coordinates
latitude of a specific location. Used to notify when a device is within
a certain distance (in metres) from that specific location. Same format used as for DeviceLatitude parameter.

*_EventGeofenceLongitude:_* refers to the geographic coordinates
longitude of a specific location. Used to notify when a device is within
a certain distance (in metres) from that specific location. Same format used as for DeviceLongitude parameter.

*_Radius:_* distance in meters from the Geofence geographic coordinates.

|GeolocationPositioningType a|
Indication of the positioning method used to determine the Geolocation
data, either successfully or unsuccessfully. Possible values are:

**_last-known_**: last known device location position stored at a
database (Location Server, HLR, etc.) from which the information is
retrieved.

**_Network_**: location information retrieved from improved measurement
techniques executed at the radio access network, either for IP or
cellular networks (e.g. timing advanced, multilateration, etc.).

**_GPS_**: location information assisted by the Global Navigation
Satellite System (GNSS), which includes GPS (as well as GLONASS and
Galileo).

|LastGeolocationResponse |Indication whether GeolocationData
values provided are  the last to be gathered in this Geolocation
request (true/yes) or further are expected to be sent asynchronously (false/no) to the StatusCallback URL.

|Cause |Reason of an unsuccessful or rejected Geolocation request.

|ApiVersion |The API version RestComm used to handle the Geolocation
service.

|Uri |The URI for this account, relative to
http://localhost:port/restcomm.
|=======================================================================


=== Supported Operations

**HTTP GET**. Returns the list representation of all the service
resources for this account, including the properties above.


== Immediate Geolocation

==== Immediate Geolocation URI

*/ApiVersion/Accounts/\{AccountSid}/Geolocation/Immediate/\{GeolocationSid}*


This URI mode refers to requests for retrieval of current or last known
Geolocation information (an associated timestamp will be included in the
response). Geolocation information might include very accurate location
data in terms of geographic coordinates, or just location identifiers
like the radio base station transceiver identity of a cellular network
that is currently providing service to the target device. Accuracy will
depend on the available radio access location procedures, either within
a Mobile Network Operator for mobile handsets location within a cellular
Radio Access Network, or a WLAN/WiFi covered area for IP location.


=== Supported Operations


**HTTP GET**. Returns the list representation of all the service
resources for this account, including the properties above.


**HTTP POST**. Sends a new location request and returns the
representation of the Location request resource, including the
properties above.


**HTTP PUT**. Updates an Immediate Geolocation request and returns the
representation of the Geolocation request resource, including the
properties above.

**HTTP DELETE**. Stops an Immediate Geolocation request previously
created or updated

=== Immediate Geolocation list of required parameters


[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|=======================================================================
|PARAMETER |DESCRIPTION


|DeviceIdentifier |The target E.164 phone number or device identity of
this Geolocation service.


|StatusCallback |A URL that RestComm will use when the Geolocation
service reaches a state that demands notifying the requesting
application. Note: Typically, if the Geolocation request is using Low
Accuracy, the Geolocation information can be retrieved quickly, thus the
result may be returned synchronously. For more precise accuracy, it will
take longer to gather the Geolocation information, as such this URL will
be called back (potentially multiple times) as the Geolocation
information is gathered.
|=======================================================================


=== Immediate Geolocation examples

===== Example 1.- Geolocation of a specific IP device associated to a User; Partial and Successful answers, whole Status Callback cycle example


See below a curl example for a Geolocation request originated from a
mobile (iOS or Android) location client. This Geolocation service
assumes WiFi connection only, thus the location information is obtained
from an Access Point (AP) management system, typically placed in indoors
surroundings like shopping centers, theaters, domes, etc.


In the first instance, the Location Server cannot determine a precise
location information, responding back with the last known location.
Later, best available accuracy is processed and informed back to the
corresponding Status Callback URL.


....
curl -X POST -H "application/json"
http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate -d "DeviceIdentifier=client:david" -d "StatusCallback=http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf"
....


See the corresponding response below for a partially-successful
positioning procedure:


....
<RestcommResponse>
   <Geolocation>
     <Sid>GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50271</Sid>
     <DateCreated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateCreated>
     <DateUpdated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:12 -0500</DateUpdated>
     <DateExecuted>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateExecuted>
     <AccountSid>ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf</AccountSid>
     <DeviceIdentifier>client:david</DeviceIdentifier>
     <GeolocationType>immediate</GeolocationType>
     <ResponseStatus>partially-successful</ResponseStatus>
     <GeolocationData>
             <DeviceLatitude>33.786442</DeviceLatitude>
             <DeviceLongitude>-84.38103</DeviceLongitude>
             <PhysicalAddress>00-41-76-C0-00-D1</PhysicalAddress>
             <InternetAddress>65.17.24.177</InternetAddress>
             <FormattedAddress>187 14th St NE Atlanta, GA 30309-2674,
             USA</FormattedAddress>
             <LocationTimestamp>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:12 -0500</LocationTimestamp>
     </GeolocationData>
     <GeolocationPositioningType>last-known</GeolocationPositioningType>
     <LastGeolocationResponse>false</LastGeolocationResponse>
     <ApiVersion>2012-04-24</ApiVersion>
     <Uri>/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50271</Uri>
   </Geolocation>
</RestcommResponse>
....


Next, see the corresponding status callback after a network measurement
updated the previously stored last known location data (still a
partially-successful positioning procedure though, desired accuracy is
not accomplished yet):


....
<RestcommResponse>
   <Geolocation>
     <Sid>GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50271</Sid>
     <DateCreated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateCreated>
     <DateUpdated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:25 -0500</DateUpdated>
     <DateExecuted>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateExecuted>
     <AccountSid>ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf</AccountSid>
     <DeviceIdentifier>client:david</DeviceIdentifier>
     <GeolocationType>immediate</GeolocationType>
     <ResponseStatus>partially-successful</ResponseStatus>
     <GeolocationData>
             <DeviceLatitude>33.770002</DeviceLatitude>
             <DeviceLongitude>-84.5200998</DeviceLongitude>
             <Accuracy>150</Accuracy>
             <PhysicalAddress>00-41-76-C0-00-D1</PhysicalAddress>
             <InternetAddress>65.17.21.37</InternetAddress>
             <FormattedAddress>37 5th St NE Atlanta, GA 30310-2179, USA</FormattedAddress>
             <LocationTimestamp>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:25 -0500</LocationTimestamp>
     </GeolocationData>
     <GeolocationPositioningType>Network</GeolocationPositioningType>
     <LastGeolocationResponse>false</LastGeolocationResponse>
     <ApiVersion>2012-04-24</ApiVersion>
     <Uri>/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50271</Uri>
   </Geolocation>
</RestcommResponse>
....


Finally, see the corresponding response below for the successful
positioning procedure informed in a posterior status callback when high
accuracy is accomplished through GPS assistance:

....
<RestcommResponse>
   <Geolocation>
     <Sid>GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50271</Sid>
     <DateCreated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateCreated>
     <DateUpdated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:38:24 -0500</DateUpdated>
     <DateExecuted>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateExecuted>
     <AccountSid>ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf</AccountSid>
     <DeviceIdentifier>client:david</DeviceIdentifier>
     <GeolocationType>immediate</GeolocationType>
     <ResponseStatus>partially-successful</ResponseStatus>
     <GeolocationData>
             <DeviceLatitude>33.870042</DeviceLatitude>
             <DeviceLongitude>-84.5190103</DeviceLongitude>
             <Accuracy>5</Accuracy>
             <PhysicalAddress>00-41-76-C0-00-D1</PhysicalAddress>
             <InternetAddress>65.17.21.37</InternetAddress>
             <FormattedAddress>34 5th St NE Atlanta, GA 30310-2178, USA</FormattedAddress>
             <LocationTimestamp>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:38:24 -0500</LocationTimestamp>
     </GeolocationData>
    <GeolocationPositioningType>GPS</GeolocationPositioningType>
     <LastGeolocationResponse>true</LastGeolocationResponse>
     <ApiVersion>2012-04-24</ApiVersion>
     <Uri>/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50271</Uri>
  </Geolocation>
</RestcommResponse>
....


==== Example 2.- Geolocation of a specific Mobile device associated to a phone number; response including geographic coordinates


See below a curl example for a Geolocation request originated initiated
by E.164 phone number 59899549878 requesting location information of
E.164 phone number 59897018375.


This case assumes that the Geolocation information is retrieved
successfully from a cellular network with capabilities for obtaining
geographic coordinates (multilateration with at least three base
stations) as well as core and radio access network identifiers:


....
curl -X POST -H "application/json"
http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate -d "DeviceIdentifier=59897018375" -d "StatusCallback=http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf"
....

See the corresponding response below:

....
<RestcommResponse>
   <Geolocation>
     <Sid>GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50272</Sid>
     <DateCreated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0300</DateCreated>
     <DateUpdated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:37:21 -0300</DateUpdated>
     <DateExecuted>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0300</DateExecuted>
     <AccountSid>ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf</AccountSid>
     <DeviceIdentifier>59897018375</DeviceIdentifier>
     <GeolocationType>immediate</GeolocationType>
     <ResponseStatus>successful</ResponseStatus>
     <GeolocationData>
             <CellId>90183B</CellId>
             <LocationAreaCode>751</LocationAreaCode>
             <MobileCountryCode>748</MobileCountryCode>
             <MobileNetworkCode>01</MobileNetworkCode>
             <NetworkEntityAddress>59800023041</NetworkEntityAddress>
             <LocationAge>0</LocationAge>
             <DeviceLatitude>-34.541079</DeviceLatitude>
             <DeviceLongitude>-56.1421274</DeviceLongitude>
             <Accuracy>50</Accuracy>
             <LocationTimestamp>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:37:21 -0300</LocationTimestamp>
     </GeolocationData>
     <GeolocationPositioningType>Network</GeolocationPositioningType>
     <LastGeolocationResponse>true</LastGeolocationResponse>
    <ApiVersion>2012-04-24</ApiVersion>
     <Uri>/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50272</Uri>
   </Geolocation>
</RestcommResponse>
....


==== Example 3.- Geolocation of a specific Mobile Device associated to a phone number; no geographic coordinates included in response

See below a curl example for a Geolocation request originated from an
application called eTop requesting location information of E.164 phone
number 59897018375. As you can see, the request demands a JSON response.

This case assumes that the Geolocation information is retrieved from a
cellular network, but in contrast with example 1, with no capabilities
for obtaining geographic coordinates but at least core and radio access
network identifiers are available (typical of 2G cellular networks):


....
curl -X POST -H "application/json"
http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate.json -d "DeviceIdentifier=39897018375" -d "StatusCallback=http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf"
....

See the corresponding response below:

....
{
  "sid": "GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50273",
  "date_created": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 +0200",
  "date_updated": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:11 +0200",
  "date_executed": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 +0200",
  "account_sid": "ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf",
  "device_identifier": "39897018375",
  "geolocation_type": "Immediate",
  "response_status": "partially-successful",
  "geolocation_data": {
    "CellId": "191",
    "LocationAreaCode": "901",
    "MobileCountryCode": "222",
    "MobileNetworkCode": "48",
    "NetworkEntityAddress": "3980000101",
    "LocationAge": "0",
    "location_timestamp": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:11 +0200"
  },
  "geolocation_positioning_type": "Network",
  "last_geolocation_response": "true",
  "api_version": "2012-04-24",
  "uri": "/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50273.json"
}
....

==== Example 4.- Geolocation of a specific IP device associated to a user: Failed execution response

See below a curl example for a Geolocation request originated from a
mobile (iOS or Android) location client, exactly like the latest
example, but on this occasion with a failed result (e.g. no geographic
coordinates or civic address could be obtained from the AP management
system):

....
curl -X POST -H "application/json"
http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate -d "DeviceIdentifier=sip:david@65.17.24.177" -d "StatusCallback=http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf"
....

See the corresponding response below:

....
<RestcommResponse>
   <Geolocation>
     <Sid>GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50274</Sid>
     <DateCreated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateCreated>
     <DateUpdated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:37 -0500</DateUpdated>
     <DateExecuted>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateExecuted>
     <AccountSid>ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf</AccountSid>
     <DeviceIdentifier>sip:david@65.17.24.177</DeviceIdentifier>
     <GeolocationType>immediate</GeolocationType>
     <ResponseStatus>failed</ResponseStatus>
     </GeolocationData>
     <Cause>Timeout, no response from network</Cause>
     <ApiVersion>2012-04-24</ApiVersion>
     <Uri>/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50274</Uri>
   </Geolocation>
</RestcommResponse>
....

Note: records are persisted when ResponseStatus equals failed, thus
they could be updated by a further operation, a POST or PUT request, or
retrieved by a GET request.

==== Example 5.- Geolocation update of a previously failed request

See below a curl example for updating the previous Geolocation request example. In this case, the last known location is set instead of the empty location data response obtained previously due to a network failure.

....
curl -X PUT -H "application/json" http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:f8bc1274677b173d1a1cf3b9924eaa7e@192.168.118.134:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50274 -d "DeviceLatitude=43.257134" -d "DeviceLongitude=-3.496932" -d "LocationTimestamp=2016-01-17T20:32:28.488-04:00" -d "PhysicalAddress=D8-97-BA-19-02-D8" -d "InternetAddress=2001:0:9d38:6ab8:30a5:1c9d:58c6:5898" -d "LastGeolocationResponse=false" -d "GeolocationPositioningType=last-known"
....

See the corresponding response below:

....
<RestcommResponse>
  <Geolocation>
    <Sid>GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50274</Sid>
    <DateCreated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateCreated>
    <DateUpdated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 20:40:10 -0500</DateUpdated>
    <DateExecuted>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateExecuted>
    <AccountSid>ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf</AccountSid>
    <DeviceIdentifier>sip:david@65.17.24.177</DeviceIdentifier>
    <GeolocationType>Immediate</GeolocationType>
    <ResponseStatus>last-known</ResponseStatus>
    <GeolocationData>
      <DeviceLatitude>35.669860</DeviceLatitude>
      <DeviceLongitude>-81.22147</DeviceLongitude>
      <InternetAddress>2001:0:9d38:6ab8:30a5:1c9d:58c6:5898</InternetAddress>
      <PhysicalAddress>D8-97-BA-19-02-D8</PhysicalAddress>
      <LocationTimestamp>Sun, 17 Jan 2016 21:32:28 -0500</LocationTimestamp>
    </GeolocationData>
    <GeolocationPositioningType>last-known</GeolocationPositioningType>
    <LastGeolocationResponse>false</LastGeolocationResponse>
    <ApiVersion>2012-04-24</ApiVersion>
    <Uri>/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50274</Uri>
  </Geolocation>
</RestcommResponse>
....

==== Example 6.- Getting information of a specific previously satisfactory created Geolocation Request

See below a curl example of retrieving the information of the Geolocation service request from the previous example:

....
curl -X GET http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50274.json
....

See the corresponding response below (the XML response would be exactly as shown previously for the POST request):

....
{
  "sid": "GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50274",
  "date_created": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500",
  "date_updated": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 20:40:10 -0500",
  "date_executed": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500",
  "account_sid": "ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf",
  "device_identifier": "sip:david@65.17.24.177",
  "geolocation_type": "Immediate",
  "response_status": "last-known",
  "geolocation_data": {
    "device_latitude": "35.669860",
    "device_longitude": "-81.22147",
    "internet_address": "2001:0:9d38:6ab8:30a5:1c9d:58c6:5898",
    "physical_address": "D8-97-BA-19-02-D8",
    "location_timestamp": "Sun, 17 Jan 2016 21:32:28 -0500"
  },
  "geolocation_positioning_type": "last-known",
  "last_geolocation_response": "false",
  "api_version": "2012-04-24",
  "uri": "/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50274.json"
}
....

==== Example 7.- Rejected Immediate Geolocation request

See below a curl example for a Geolocation request originated from a RestComm Location Client, but on this occasion with a "rejected" result as a mandatory parameter is missing:

....
curl -X POST -H "application/json"
http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Immediate -d "DeviceIdentifier=4498750163"
....

This request gets an "HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request" response with the following text:

....
StatusCallback value can not be null
....

No records are persisted for "HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request" responses,
thus they cannot be updated by either a further POST or PUT request, or
retrieved through a GET request.


== Notification Geolocation

==== Notification Location URI

*/ApiVersion/Accounts/\{AccountSid}/Geolocation/Notification/\{GeolocationSid}*


This URI mode refers to requests for retrieval of current or future
event related GeoLocation information. The response may occur some time
after the request was sent. Examples include geofencing, device
availability/presence alerts, sensors/beacons, alarms, etc. Relative
GeoLocation data (distance to a specific spot), time intervals and
amount of occurrences and other kinds of event associated operational
information can be included from this mode request.

=== Supported Operations

**HTTP GET**. Returns the list representation of all the service
resources for this account, including the properties above.

**HTTP POST**. Sends a new Geolocation Notification request and returns
the representation of the Geolocation request resource, including the
properties above.

**HTTP PUT**. Updates a GeoLocation Notification request and returns the
representation of the Geolocation request resource, including the
properties above.

**HTTP DELETE**. Stops a Geolocation Notification request previously
created or updated


=== Notification Geolocation list of required parameters

Parameters below apply for Notification type of Geolocation.
Notification applies to a location request where the response/s and
GeoLocation Data is/are required after a specific event has occurred.
Event may or may not occur immediately. In addition, event may occur
many times. Examples of these events: when a device is entering or
leaving or being in a pre-defined geographical area (geofencing);
periodic GeoLocation; when a device becomes available; when a
sensor/beacon detects a threshold surpassed, etc.


[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|=======================================================================
|PARAMETER |DESCRIPTION


|DeviceIdentifier |The target E.164 phone number or device identity of
this Geolocation service.

|EventGeofenceLatitude a|
This parameter refers to the geographic coordinates latitude of a
specific location. Used to notify when a device is within a certain
distance (in metres) from that specific location.

WGS84 is used, whose formats for Latitude is described next:

Latitude valid formats include:

   N43°38'19.39"

   43°38'19.39"N

   43 38 19.39

   43.63871944444445

If expressed in decimal form, northern latitudes are positive, southern
latitudes are negative. The following latitude variants are also allowed:

   N43 38 19.39

   43 38 19.39N


|EventGeofenceLongitude a|
Same as previous, but for geographic coordinates longitude.

WGS84 is used, whose formats for Longitude is described next:

Longitude valid formats include:

   W116°14'28.86"

   116°14'28.86"W

   -116 14 28.86

   -116.2413513485235

If expressed in decimal form, eastern longitudes are positive, western
longitudes are negative.The following longitude variants are also allowed:

   W116 14 28.86

   116 14 28.86W

|GeofenceRange |Distance in meters from the specific location denoted by
EventGeofenceLatitude and EventGeofenceLongitude geographic
coordinates, that would require a Geolocation procedure (e.g. as an
alert that certain device is within a specific location area framed with
beacons, sensors, etc.).

|GeofenceEvent a|
Indication if this Notification Geolocation service is intended to
inform about a target device entering or leaving a certain location area
(implicitly specified by EventGeofenceLatitude,
EventGeofenceLongitude and GeofenceRange parameters). Allowed values
are:

- in: reports when the target device has been detected within
the specified location area.

- out: reports when the target device has been detected leaving
the specified location area.

- in-out: reports when the target device has been detected
either entering or leaving the specified location area.

|StatusCallback |A URL that RestComm will use when the Geolocation
service reaches a state that demands notifying the requesting
application.
|=======================================================================



=== Notification Geolocation examples


==== Example 1: Geolocation of a specific IP device when it enters a 1km
range of a specific Geolocation - Partial and Successful answers, whole
Status Callback cycle example

See below a curl example for a Geolocation request of a device under
WiFi access whenever its distance to a specific geographic position is
1000 metres (e.g.: the position of a beacon sensing tracking anklets of
an offender). The example response provides location information every
time the target device enters such location area.

....
curl -X POST -H "application/json"
http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification-d "DeviceIdentifier=56790122158" -d
"EventGeofenceLatitude=-33.426280" -d
"EventGeofenceLongitude=-70.566560" -d "GeofenceRange=1000" -d
"GeofenceEvent=in" -d "StatusCallback=http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf"
....

See the corresponding response below for a partially-successful
positioning procedure, where only last known stored location information
is obtained:


....
<RestcommResponse>
   <Geolocation>
     <Sid>GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50275</Sid>
     <DateCreated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateCreated>
     <DateUpdated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:15 -0500</DateUpdated>
     <DateExecuted>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateExecuted>
     <AccountSid>ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf</AccountSid>
     <DeviceIdentifier>56790122158</DeviceIdentifier>
     <GeolocationType>notification</GeolocationType>
     <ResponseStatus>partially-successful</ResponseStatus>
     <GeolocationData>
             <LocationTimestamp>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:15 -0500</LocationTimestamp>
             <DeviceLatitude>-34.800182</DeviceLatitude>
             <DeviceLongitude>-71.579001</DeviceLongitude>
             <Radius>178956.60</Radius>
             <InternetAddress>200.1.122.4</InternetAddress>
             <PhysicalAddress>00-50-56-C0-00-08</PhysicalAddress>
     </GeolocationData>
     <GeolocationPositioningType>last-known</GeolocationPositioningType>
     <LastGeolocationResponse>false</LastGeolocationResponse>
     <ApiVersion>2012-04-24</ApiVersion>
     <Uri>/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50275</Uri>
   </Geolocation>
</RestcommResponse>
....


Next, see the corresponding status callback after a network measurement
updated the previously stored last known location data (still a
partially-successful positioning procedure though, desired accuracy is
not accomplished yet):


....
<RestcommResponse>
   <Geolocation>
     <Sid>GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50275</Sid>
     <DateCreated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateCreated>
     <DateUpdated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:44 -0500</DateUpdated>
     <DateExecuted>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateExecuted>
     <AccountSid>ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf</AccountSid>
     <DeviceIdentifier>56790122158</DeviceIdentifier>
     <GeolocationType>notification</GeolocationType>
     <ResponseStatus>partially-successful</ResponseStatus>
     <GeolocationData>
             <LocationTimestamp>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:44 -0500</LocationTimestamp>
             <DeviceLatitude>-33.428423</DeviceLatitude>
             <DeviceLongitude>-70.5678026</DeviceLongitude>
             <Accuracy>220</Accuracy>
             <Radius>264.73</Radius>
             <PhysicalAddress>00-50-56-C0-00-08</PhysicalAddress>
             <InternetAddress>201.2.108.42</InternetAddress>
     </GeolocationData>
     <GeolocationPositioningType>Network</GeolocationPositioningType>
     <LastGeolocationResponse>false</LastGeolocationResponse>
     <ApiVersion>2012-04-24</ApiVersion>
     <Uri>/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50275</Uri>
   </Geolocation>
</RestcommResponse>
....

Finally, see the corresponding response below for the successful
positioning procedure informed in a posterior status callback when high
accuracy is accomplished through GPS assistance:

....
<RestcommResponse>
   <Geolocation>
     <Sid>GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50275</Sid>
     <DateCreated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateCreated>
     <DateUpdated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:37:04 -0500</DateUpdated>
     <DateExecuted>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateExecuted>
     <AccountSid>ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf</AccountSid>
     <DeviceIdentifier>56790122158</DeviceIdentifier>
     <GeolocationType>notification</GeolocationType>
     <ResponseStatus>partially-successful</ResponseStatus>
     <GeolocationData>
             <LocationTimestamp>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:37:04 -0500</LocationTimestamp>
             <DeviceLatitude>-33.426391</DeviceLatitude>
             <DeviceLongitude>-70.566399</DeviceLongitude>
             <Accuracy>10</Accuracy>
             <Radius>19.38</Radius>
             <PhysicalAddress>00-50-56-C0-00-08</PhysicalAddress>
             <InternetAddress>201.2.108.42</InternetAddress>
     </GeolocationData>
     <GeolocationPositioningType>GPS</GeolocationPositioningType>
     <LastGeolocationResponse>true</LastGeolocationResponse>
     <ApiVersion>2012-04-24</ApiVersion>
     <Uri>/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50275</Uri>
   </Geolocation>
</RestcommResponse>
....


==== Example 2.- Geolocation of a specific IP device when it enters a 1km range of a specific Geolocation: Unauthorized Answer


See below a curl the exact same example of the latter Geolocation
request but for an unauthorized device at the AP management system:

....
curl -X POST -H "application/json"
http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification -d "DeviceIdentifier=56790122158" -d
"EventGeofenceLatitude=-33.426280" -d
"EventGeofenceLongitude=-70.566560" -d "GeofenceRange=1000" -d
"GeofenceEvent=in" -d
"StatusCallback=http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf"
....

See the corresponding response below:

....
<RestcommResponse>
   <Geolocation>
     <Sid>GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50276</Sid>
     <DateCreated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateCreated>
     <DateUpdated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:12 -0500</DateUpdated>
     <DateExecuted>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0500</DateExecuted>
     <AccountSid>ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf</AccountSid>
     <DeviceIdentifier>56790122158</DeviceIdentifier>
     <GeolocationType>notification</GeolocationType>
     <ResponseStatus>unauthorized</ResponseStatus>
     </GeolocationData>
     <Cause>Target device not allowed by the network</Cause>
     <ApiVersion>2012-04-24</ApiVersion>
     <Uri>/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50276</Uri>
   </Geolocation>
</RestcommResponse>
....


Note: records are persisted when ResponseStatus equals "unauthorized".


==== Example 3.- Geolocation of a specific IP device when it enters a 1km range of a specific Geolocation: Rejected Answer

See below a curl of the exact same example of the latter Geolocation
request but inappropriately as GeofenceEvent parameter is missing:


....
curl -X POST -H "application/json"
http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification -d "DeviceIdentifier=56790122158" -d
"EventGeofenceLatitude=-33.426280" -d
"EventGeofenceLongitude=-70.566560" -d "GeofenceRange=1000" -d
"GeofenceEvent=both" -d
"StatusCallback=http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf"
....

This request gets an HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request response with the following text:

....
StatusCallback value can not be null
....

No records are persisted for HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request responses,
thus they cannot be updated by either a further POST or PUT request, or
retrieved through a GET request.

==== Example 4.- Geolocation of a specific IP device when it enters a 200 meters range of a specific Geolocation: Success Answer


See below a curl example for a Geolocation request of a mobile phone
under cellular radio access is entering or leaving a location area
specified by a 200 metres distance to the geographic location of a
specific business shop (e.g.: for mobile advertising). The example
response additionally provides location information in terms of the
radio access network identifiers which triggered the positioning method.
The accuracy of location information is gathered as Average (100m to
300m of error margin), which could prevent further actions as only
High accuracy could be set for them (e.g. mobile advertising
containing a special offer):


....
curl -X POST -H "application/json"
http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification -d "DeviceIdentifier=SB7089A" -d
"EventGeofenceLatitude=35.526280" -d "EventGeofenceLongitude=139.566560"
-d "GeofenceRange=200" -d "GeofenceEvent=in-out" -d
"StatusCallback=http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf"
....


See the corresponding response below:

....
<RestcommResponse>
   <Geolocation>
     <Sid>GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50278</Sid>
     <DateCreated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 +0900</DateCreated>
     <DateUpdated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:41:10 +0900</DateUpdated>
     <DateExecuted>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 +0900</DateExecuted>
     <AccountSid>ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf</AccountSid>
     <DeviceIdentifier>SB7089A</DeviceIdentifier>
     <GeolocationType>notification</GeolocationType>
     <ResponseStatus>successful</ResponseStatus>
     <GeolocationData>
             <CellId>47501A</CellId>
             <LocationAreaCode>239</LocationAreaCode>
             <MobileCountryCode>441</MobileCountryCode>
             <MobileNetworkCode>98</MobileNetworkCode>
             <NetworkEntityAddress>810002304</NetworkEntityAddress>
             <LocationAge>0</LocationAge>
             <DeviceLatitude>35.526375</DeviceLatitude>
             <DeviceLongitude>139.566802</DeviceLongitude>
             <Accuracy>50</Accuracy>
             <Radius>24</Radius>
             <LocationTimestamp>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:41:10 +0900</LocationTimestamp>
     </GeolocationData>
     <GeolocationPositioningType>Network</GeolocationPositioningType>
     <LastGeolocationResponse>true</LastGeolocationResponse>
     <ApiVersion>2012-04-24</ApiVersion>
     <Uri>/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50278</Uri>
   </Geolocation>
</RestcommResponse>
....


==== Example 5.- Geolocation of a specific IP device when it enters a 300m range of a specific Geolocation with High Accuracy: Success Answer


See below a curl example for a Geolocation request originated from
location client within a mobile (iOS or Android) application, that
expects to be informed about entering a specific location area, within
300 metres from a specific geographic spot. The service could serve
several purposes (emergency services, friends and family finder, etc.).


In this case, the location information is assumed to be retrieved in JSON format from
an LTE-Advanced cellular network, where all location data parameters can
be obtained, including parameters such as civic address
("FormattedAddress" parameter):

....
curl -X POST -H "application/json"
http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification.json
-d "Source=59897018375" -d "DeviceIdentifier=59897018375" -d
"EventGeofenceLatitude=-34.541078" -d
"EventGeofenceLongitude=-56.061600" -d "GeofenceRange=300" -d
"GeofenceEvent=in" -d "DesiredAccuracy=High" -d
"StatusCallback=http://192.16.1.19:8080/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf"
....

See the corresponding response below:

....
{
  "sid": "GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50279",
  "date_created": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0300",
  "date_updated": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:37:18 -0300",
  "date_executed": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0300",
  "account_sid": "ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf",
  "device_identifier": "59897018375",
  "geolocation_type": "Notification",
  "response_status": "successful",
  "geolocation_data": {
    "cell_id": "908",
    "location_area_code": "751",
    "mobile_country_code": 748,
    "mobile_network_code": "1",
    "network_entity_address": 59800023041,
    "location_age": 0,
    "device_latitude": "-34.542029",
    "device_longitude": "56.058181",
    "accuracy": 5,
    "internet_address": "167.57.122.14",
    "physical_address": "00-50-56-C0-00-08",
    "formatted_address": "Avenida Italia 2552, 11500, Montevideo, Uruguay",
    "location_timestamp": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:37:17 -0300",
    "event_geofence_latitude": "-34.551098",
    "event_geofence_longitude": "-70.601700",
    "radius": 115.24
  },
  "geolocation_positioning_type": "GPS",
  "last_geolocation_response": "true",
  "api_version": "2012-04-24",
  "uri": "/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50279.json"
}
....

==== Example 6.- Update previous GeoLocation request for a specific IP device when it exits a 300m range of a specific Geolocation: Success Answer

See below a curl example for updating the previous Geolocation
request example, where geographic coordinates of the geofence location are
modified, as well as the event type (leaving the location area instead
of entering it as set in the previous example).

....
curl -X PUT -H "application/json"
http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50280 -d "EventGeofenceLatitude=-34.553098" -d "EventGeofenceLongitude=56.050811" -d "GeofenceEvent=out"
....


See the corresponding response below:


....
<RestcommResponse>
   <Geolocation>
     <Sid>GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50280</Sid>
     <DateCreated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:38:10 -0300</DateCreated>
     <DateUpdated>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:39:18 -0300</DateUpdated>
     <DateExecuted>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0300</DateExecuted>
     <AccountSid>ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf</AccountSid>
     <DeviceIdentifier>59897018375</DeviceIdentifier>
     <GeolocationType>notification</GeolocationType>
     <ResponseStatus>partially-successful</ResponseStatus>
     <GeolocationData>
             <CellId>90182A</CellId>
             <LocationAreaCode>751</LocationAreaCode>
             <MobileCountryCode>748</MobileCountryCode>
             <MobileNetworkCode>01</MobileNetworkCode>
             <NetworkEntityAddress>59800023041</NetworkEntityAddress>
             <LocationAge>0</LocationAge>
             <DeviceLatitude>-34.560071</DeviceLatitude>
             <DeviceLongitude>56.057710</DeviceLongitude>
             <Accuracy>180</Accuracy>
             <Radius>115</Radius>
             <InternetAddress>167.57.122.14</InternetAddress>
             <PhysicalAddress>00-50-56-C0-00-08</PhysicalAddress>
             <FormattedAddress>Avenida Italia 2552, 11500, Montevideo, Uruguay</FormattedAddress>
             <LocationTimestamp>Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:37:18 -0300</LocationTimestamp>
     </GeolocationData>
     <GeolocationPositioningType>Network</GeolocationPositioningType>
     <LastGeolocationResponse>true</LastGeolocationResponse>
     <ApiVersion>2012-04-24</ApiVersion>
     <Uri>/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50280</Uri>
   </Geolocation>
</RestcommResponse>
....



==== Example 7.- Retrieve information of a specific previously satisfactory created Geolocation Request

See below a curl example of retrieving the information of the Geolocation service request from previous example:

....
curl -X GET http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50280.json
....

See the corresponding JSON response below (the XML response would be exactly as shown previously for the POST request):

....
{
  "sid": "GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50280",
  "date_created": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:38:10 -0300",
  "date_updated": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:39:18 -0300",
  "date_executed": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:36:10 -0300",
  "account_sid": "ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf",
  "device_identifier": "59897018375",
  "geolocation_type": "Notification",
  "response_status": "partially-successful",
  "geolocation_data": {
    "cell_id": "90182A",
    "location_area_code": "751",
    "mobile_country_code": 748,
    "mobile_network_code": "01",
    "network_entity_address": 59800023041,
    "location_age": 0,
    "device_latitude": "-34.560071",
    "device_longitude": "56.057710",
    "accuracy": 180,
    "internet_address": "167.57.122.14",
    "physical_address": "00-50-56-C0-00-08",
    "formatted_address": "Avenida Italia 2552, 11500, Montevideo, Uruguay",
    "location_timestamp": "Mon, 25 Jan 2016 16:37:18 -0300",
    "event_geofence_latitude": "-34.551098",
    "event_geofence_longitude": "-70.601700",
    "radius": 115
  },
  "geolocation_positioning_type": "last-known",
  "last_geolocation_response": "true",
  "api_version": "2012-04-24",
  "uri": "/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50280.json"
}
....


==== Example 8.- Stop Notifications of a specific previously created Geolocation Request

See below a curl example for stopping notifications of a previously
created Geolocation request.

....
curl -X DELETE
http://ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf:77f8c12cc7b8f8423e5c38b035249166@127.0.0.1:8080/restcomm/2012-04-24/Accounts/ACae6e420f425248d6a26948c17a9e2acf/Geolocation/Notification/GLfa51b104354440b09213d04752f50280
....




== IP Geolocation Sequence Diagram


IP Immediate Geolocation Sequence Diagram of RestComm with Olympus
Clients and RestComm Mobile/Web SDKs



image:images/IPGeolocationSequenceDiagram.gif[image,width=633,height=230]



For the Notification case the diagram is similar, except that the device
can store the information and notify RestComm when it approaches a
certain location area.

== Cellular Geolocation Sequence Diagrams


Next diagram shows the interaction between RestComm and GMLC within a GSM network, from where location services are reduced to retrieving Global Cell Identity, Age of Location information and network node address at which the target mobile subscriber is
currently currently attached.

image:images/RestComm_GSM_Immediate_Geolocation.png[image,width=633,height=230]


Next diagram exhibits a Notification type of Geolocation signal flow in 3G cellular networks. An Immediate type of Geolocation signal flow in the same environment would be identical, except for the event detection and its derived signals. Besides, for the sake of simplicity, it only shows a single event detection.

image:images/RestComm_UMTS_Notification_Geolocation.png[image,width=750,height=400]



Next diagram is the analogue of the latter, but for EPS networks or LTE location services (where SS7/MAP operations do not apply anymore, but their analogous Diameter procedures with EPC and E-UTRAN entities).



image:images/RestComm_LTE_Notification_Geolocation.png[image,width=750,height=400]

== Geolocation Status Callbacks Sequence Diagram


A Geolocation sequence diagram of RestComm API interacting with Location
Servers for most accurate location information retrieved to the Status
Callback URL when available. The sequence shown reveals the best case
scenario, where status callbacks are performed until the most accurate
positioning method available. As shown, last known stored location
information is initially returned. Afterwards, a better procedure
returns a more accurate location information based on the current access
point. Ultimately, the best possible available method (GPS) gathers the
location information and is delivered to the requesting application.
Accordingly, LastGeolocationResponse parameter is set to "true" in the
last status callback, as the desired accuracy is ultimately achieved.



image:images/GeolocationStatusCallbacksSequenceDiagram.gif[image,width=633,height=348]



== RestComm Core SS7 and LTE Geolocation Configuration


RestComm needs to be configured to be able to process Geolocation
services. The GMLC (Gateway Mobile Location Center) to which Restcomm
must send the Location request must be configured in _restcomm.xml_
file. IP address and port configuration are mandatory. Username and
password are optional for GMLC.

....
<!-- TelScale GMLC -->

<gmlc>
    <gmlc-uri>GMLC_IP:PORT_NUMBER</ gmlc -uri>
        <gmlc-user></gmlc-user>
        <gmlc-password></ gmlc-password>
</gmlc>
....
